today i'm going to be learning to code
in r
in three hours
hello everyone how are you all let me
know in the comments
today as i've said it's going to be a
coding day
so r is an open source programming
language which i currently have
no knowledge of zilch and the reason
that i am sitting down
to learn the basics of r today is in
three months time i've got
an exam where i'm going to be expected
to use
r to perform statistical calculations
the paper i'm preparing for is cs1b
and honestly i should have started
preparing for it by now i've just been
putting it off and
as i've been going through my course
notes any mention of r i've just skipped
over like oh yeah i'll come back to that
later
and now it's got to the point where i'm
like uh oh the exam is in april and
i have never used r before i am going to
be expected to be using r
under time pressure to solve statistics
problems so
i need to get on it and that brings us
to today is why i'm sitting down here
at my weekend on a saturday on my day
off
learning to code i'm gonna try keep you
guys updated with my progress as i go
along
has my download started that was the
first hurdle working out how to download
it
luckily i have bought study materials
for my actuarial exams from the
actuarial education company
who have a very handy set of resources
for learning to code in r to help us
prep for the cs1b
exam so the notes that act ed have
pulled together are going to be my
starting point
just for the next three hours all i want
to do is
have a play around in art and
familiarizing myself
with the syntax okay so i have
successfully managed to install
our studio our studio from what it
sounds like
is just an interface to run
our commands through and apparently
it is a lot more user-friendly so we
like the sound of that we want something
user-friendly
so that's what we're going with i have
got a document which runs
me through the layout of our studio and
what is where
so i'm gonna read through that as a
starting point
[Music]
okay so far so good i have whizzed
through
the first few introduction documents
in a minute i'm gonna walk you through
the stuff i have learned
so far but i'm suddenly really hungry so
i'm gonna go grab some lunch first and
then show you guys and demonstrate my
new knowledge
okay i am back i am refreshed i have
eaten
i am happy to continue i am going to
screen record
my laptop screen which is sitting in
front of me
so i'm currently in r studio
this is the console window where
you write your commands in add two
numbers together
one plus one it's just like typing it
into a calculator
multiply divide
the one i believe is just the index of
the first
output value in your output line
you've also got functions in here so if
i wanted to do a log
function you start typing it in and look
there's a handy little prompt that tells
you what all the functions do
over here is the environment
window so if i have any variables
stored for example if i say a
equals six and press enter that
gets stored up here the values of my
variables
demo graphics because demo is a function
clearly then if i go into my plots
window
look i've got example plots so when i'm
actually making plots in my exam they
will
appear here what else have i learned
when i'm actually
using r i'm gonna write my code in the
script because it doesn't get saved in
the console
and then to run that i go control
a enter yeah if you want to type
comments in code you can just
use the hash key hello this
is a test the hash just comments
everything to the right of it out so
it's not read as a command it's just
used to make your code more readable and
people know what's going on
i think the most important thing i've
read this morning about r
is that it's case sensitive which is
something that would definitely trip
me up if i'm in the console window here
and i start typing
log with a capital l log 10
it says error it says they couldn't find
the function log with a capital l at the
start because it doesn't recognize it
you have to type
log with a lower base l 10.
most of the time i don't think oh when
you press up it does the same as what it
had before
interesting so yeah that's really kind
of where i've got up to so far i've just
been having
a play around with typing stuff in the
console window writing a script
trying to execute a script i just need
to go through a few more of the
standard functions so i know how to
store things as vectors matrices etc i
think to store something as a vector
i put assigned as c
or do i use square brackets do we think
12 3 4 60
curly brackets curly brackets
oh it works okay let's continue this
crash course
in r
[Music]
okay i've got about 15 minutes remaining
until my three hours is
up and i'm going to take the rest of the
day off progress update
it's going okay i got bored reading
through all the functions so i've just
ended up skipping to looking at
questions
and my strategy i think is look over
their examples
to one or two exercises and then attempt
the rest of the exercises using
the same functions so the one i'm
looking at
now is literally just part one of a
question and it probably would get me
all of
two marks but still i am calculating
a binomial probability firstly they
asked me to do it just using the
factorial
function then they asked me to do it
using the choose function
and the d binome function and i think it
might have worked because
p1 p2 p3 we look over in our environment
window are all the same this is the
other
exercise i was trying and just i'm sorry
about
my variable names they are not pretty at
all i'm generating a
sample from a uniform distribution from
0 to 36 or that's what it's supposed to
be doing
at least and i plotted a histogram as
well with this one
look at my beautiful histogram now i'm
not
totally happy with this because my
vertical axis
just cuts off a bit early but also i
don't know how to fix it i think what
i'm gonna do
is a couple more questions and then call
it a night
and say that i know how to use r do you
know what i think it's been useful
just to dip my toe in get a feel for it
i just felt completely out of control
before today
as in i had no clue how difficult it was
going to be how long it would take me to
pick up
what the style of questions would be i
just had absolutely no clue it was a
completely
unknown thing and that stressed me out a
bit but
i feel so much better now because it's
not impossible
and i think now i've got started this is
actually going to encourage me to
continue practicing it over the next few
weeks i was just putting it off and
putting it off and putting it off and
i'm so pleased that i forced myself to
actually
learn some r today
first one just uses the choose function
which
which is built into that function and
the third one uses the d
by name function and that's been your
last
three hours if i want to put an output i
can just put print and the variable
looked up here are my variables oh my
god your plant just died
it's this light oh my god you're killing
my plight
what the hell this was fine this morning
does it not do well with lights
i looked up online right saw some
research that plants are supposed to
reduce stress
increase productivity i thought those
are both really good things
so let's get some plants on my desk oh
no they're being taken away they're also
my house plants
what about what about my productivity
levels they're going to drop
my stress levels could go up just
because you're taking me straight away
okay as i said let's get back to my last
couple of questions and call it a day
[Music]
okay that is it we are done thank you
very much for joining me
i'm so tired give the video a like
subscribe to my channel and follow my
instagram i'll leave a link in the
description and i'll see you soon with
another video
[Music]
bye
you